#  SENG GUI
The goal
of the project is to develop an application where a user can select the files to be processed, make queries
into the files and make some computations about state-appropriated funding generated by the course(s). 

## Table of Contents
* [Project Summary](#project-summary)
* [Technologies](#technologies)
* [Local Setup](#local-setup)
* [Docker Setup](#docker-setup)
* [Routes](#routes)

## Project Summary
<table>
<tr>
<td>
The input data files would be read into some sort of database. Queries to the database,
computations based on the data, and presentation of the results will be done through a GUI.
</td>
</tr>
</table>

## Technologies
* [Python 3.9.5](#https://www.python.org/downloads/) 
* [Flask 2.0.1](#https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/) and its dependences. Flask is the python library that will be used to creae the API. Its dependences will be automatically installed upon the installation of flask
* [pip 21.1.2](#https://pypi.org/project/pip/) - simple package installer for python
* [Docker](#https://hub.docker.com/editions/community/docker-ce-desktop-window) - An open source containerization platform that allows packaging of application into containers


## Local Setup
1.  Be sure to have Python installed locally
2.  Clone repo on local machine
3.  Create a virtual environment using `python3 -m venv <name of environment>` for windows, Linux and MacOS.
4.  Activate virtual environment using  `<name of environment>\Scripts\activate` for windows. For linux and MacOS use `source <name of environment>/bin/activate`.
5. Install flask, on terminal run `pip install Flask`
6. To download the required dependencies run `pip install -r requirements.txt`, make sure to run this command outside penv environment
    6.1. For OSX make sure you have mysql installed with `brew install mysql`, or the requirements will fail to install 
7. To configure the database, ensure you are in the csenProj3  directory, after which you can open up the Python REPL by typing `python3`
    into your command line. 
    In your python REPL type the following:
    ```
     from project import db, create_app, models
     db.create_all(app=create_app())
     ```
8. To run the app through flask, type the following into your command line:
      ```
      export FLASK_APP=hello.py
      export FLASK_ENV=development
      flask run -p 5001
      ```
9. Afterwards project will run on http://127.0.0.1:5001/



## Docker Setup
1. In the Technologies Section, click on the Docker Technology and follow the setup guide, ensure Docker is running before going to the next step
2. Use the command `docker build coursedata` to build the the application.
3. Use the command `docker run -p 8001:5000` to run the application.
4. Afterwards project will run on localhost:8001



### Either the Local Setup or the Docker setup should work just fine, the docker setup is faster and less error prone however, this is because the entire project is set to be containerized and made into an image.

## Routes

| Endpoint      | HTTP VERB   | Definition  |
| ------------- | ----------- | ----------- | 
|auth.login       | GET     | /login|
|auth.login_post  | POST     |/login|
|auth.logout      | GET      |/logout|
|auth.signup      | GET      |/signup|
|auth.signup_post  |POST     |/signup|
|main.coursedata  | GET      |/coursedata|
|main.cover_page  | GET      |/|
|static            |GET      |/static/<path:filename>|

